Hana Lim  0:07  
Hello, thank you for participating in this activity. How's your semester going? so far?

Interviewee  0:13  
Gone? Pretty good can't complain.

Hana Lim  0:16  
Great, awesome, good

to hear.

We're not, we're not evaluating you in any way. But we are learning from you about how you look for information online and what works and doesn't work for you. But this, I hope I can make the product better for people like you. There are no right or wrong answers to any of the questions I'm asking. In this study, were simply interested in understanding how you would do things online. We will conduct the study mostly as a discussion, I'll ask you to show me how you do things using your device and ask your questions to better understand what you do. Here's a breakdown of the session, I'll ask you a few general questions about the job search, and the record, then we'll go through the search tasks you have provided for us. While you are working on the search task, we'd like you to think out loud, which means you give running commentary of what's going on in your mind. We can talk about things you like or don't like, feel free to say anything that comes to your mind. I will record a video of you to capture your facial expressions and words while you conduct the task on my phone. The video will only be used internally for me to review later, I will not use your name in connection with anything. How does that sound? Do you have any questions?

Interviewee  1:24  
No. All good.

Hana Lim  1:25  
All right, please know that you can choose to end this activity at any time. And additionally, you can ask questions of me at any time during the activity. Alrighty, so some of the background questions I wanted to start off with is, could you tell me your name and a little bit about what you are currently studying and pursuing?

Interviewee  1:45  
My name is Jake, and I'm studying history. I don't know exactly what I'm pursuing in life, but going for a history degree. So see how that goes.

Hana Lim  2:00  
You already have like a defined career goal? And if so, what is it? And if not, what is your interest in your career field?

Interviewee  2:08  
I'm not necessarily defined career goal so much as it is just to complete my degree and sort of figure it out from there. I wouldn't mind being a history professor, I wouldn't mind doing something teaching related and or historically related in some way, whether that be in a museum or, again, teaching people or I don't know, maybe some sort of historical role. I'm not 100% sure. But that's kind of what I'm aiming for.

Hana Lim  2:42  
What's really impressive, because like, I've always had a hard time to history, and that's really good to hear.

Interviewee  2:50  
On subject, but it's hard.

Hana Lim  2:52  
Yeah, it is it is. Have you ever been employed? And if so, what was your job pedal? And which platform did you use to find your position?

Interviewee  3:03  
That's been employed in a couple different places. I've had a couple restaurant jobs, I've had a couple office jobs. And none of them were really through any particular platform as much as they were through word of mouth. Although I have looked at jobs online, I've used indeed.com. I've used various other job, search firms that are all based online. What is it, I know, indeed, is probably the most popular and that's the one that I can think of off the top of my head. But I've also used a couple other that I don't exactly remember the name of. But if we're talking about where I've gotten my employment from, or like, where I found my jobs, the majority had been through word of mouth. So friends, family members, or I kind of see something that, you know, looks like they're hiring or a place that looks like they're hiring, and I just sort of walk in. But I know that may not be the norm, but that's how I found my my jobs. So

Hana Lim  4:03  
great, awesome.

And

how, and like moving on to the next question, how often do you search for jobs? And how do you keep track of the companies that you've applied to?

Interviewee  4:20  
Um, depending on what I'm looking for, I don't always have like a set list of jobs. Like if it's, if it's something that like, like an internship position or something like that, or, or I don't know, it just depends on how important the job searches like if I'm looking for just a part time job, or something to just fill my time I don't exactly have a giant spreadsheet of jobs that I've I've listed for but if it's like oh, I'm looking for a specific internship and I need to contact this many companies, then then I would probably have a spreadsheet or Like a Word document or something, to just say, Okay, this is where I've applied, this is where I what I need to do, or this, you know, this is what I do send, like more and more specific stuff like that. But but again for like regular, you know, I just need some spending money because college students blah, blah, blah. I don't I don't I don't keep a detailed list of that.

Hana Lim  5:19  
Awesome. Yeah, that sounds good.

Do you?

Do you believe the way you keep track of the places you've applied to is efficient? So like, just like you mentioned, like a spreadsheet or a Word document? Do you think those ways? Would it be efficient for you to keep track of everything?

Interviewee  5:41  
I mean, if I follow through on it, yeah, I think to some degree, they are, I would say, for me more of a Word document, as opposed to an Excel spreadsheet, I kind of just like to type it. You know, Excel is good if you're trying to work with numbers a lot and a lot of different numbers like you're inputting. Because because it also has those functions that you can input for, you know, dividing, subtracting, adding all that other crap you can do in Excel, and it works pretty well. If it's just like, a list of places that I'm applying to, I'll more likely use Microsoft Word or Google Google Docs or something like that, because it's just easier to use and navigate as opposed to excel, Excel has a little bit of a learning curve. So I see.

Hana Lim  6:25  
And so if you were to record any, like information about the companies that you've applied to, like, which information would you have it in your list? Like, it could be, for example, name of the company, or like submission

Interviewee  6:40  
day,

Hana Lim  6:40  
or in a position title, something like that? Which information

Interviewee  6:44  
usually, like position? And what company it is? I don't, I think I might not include the day I did it. But maybe like, the month I did it, you know, just to kind of get a sense of, you know, when I should apply again, or if it's like a place that. I mean, I've done this, I've done this even in my own head for places that I wanted to work at, you know, like cool jobs that I thought we'd like, oh, there's a bakery over there. And they're looking to hire, or Oh, there's a there's a cool place, a toy shop that I've always wanted to work at. Now. They're they have a hiring position. And sometimes they say, Oh, well, we're not looking for someone like you, but submit your resume, and then we'll get back to you, I'll make a mental note of the month that it happened. So then I'll be like, okay, I can I'll ask again in a couple more months, because maybe they'll be looking for someone like me, in the next couple of months, right? Like, they may just be, they might be looking for full time people at that time. And then later on, they might be looking for part time people, right. So I would make a depending on the job, I would make a note of the month, but in general, it would usually just be company and position. So

Hana Lim  7:55  
I see. Great. And my next question was actually how do you find the jobs and which platforms you have have used? But you already answered his question earlier. So I'll just move on to next question. Yeah, yeah. And what are the work values? And which factor Do you consider the most? When deciding which place to place?

Interviewee  8:19  
Work? Work values? You said? Yes, yeah. Um, I mean, I like a place that looks friendly. You know, I've worked in many different jobs. And, you know, some of them really make you work your butt off. And some of them are really, you know, kind of just lazy, and the people are lazy, and no one's really wanting to ever be there. And some are like a mix in between. But the thing that I really value the most is probably people that work hard, and are still able to be friendly to you. Right? So I mean, for example, I had a job at Staples before. And that one, you know, it was decent hours. And they were pretty flexible with everything. But it was horrible. Because everybody hated it. And no one wanted to be there. And we had a quote a co worker who had worked there for like 30 years, he passed away while working there. And he and everybody, like, everybody was like, Oh, he died. And it was it was like a big mess. But no one made a big deal out of it. And everybody just kept working, right. And I've had other jobs, other jobs where you come in, and they're really nice. And, you know, everybody knows each other and hangs out after work. And they help each other out. If they don't know what they're doing. Right. I worked at Jamba Juice, that that particular job was was really nice because everyone their work together knew each other and we're all very, super friendly to customers and to each other, right? So, so places like that, I would value 100 times more, even if the work was a lot harder, just are nicer you know, so being happy Good working synergy is good. So

Hana Lim  10:08  
well, thank you. I think it's always great to hear other different opinions about their work values.

Interviewee  10:15  
Say that again?

Hana Lim  10:17  
Oh, I just thought that it's always good to hear other people's like worked out your site, you know, they're all different. Yeah. And so when you mentioned that you have used like, job plus, like job board platforms, like, indeed, or some other kinds of website, what do you like and dislike about the current job boards with updating the application progress?

Interviewee  10:47  
Um,

I don't, I don't like that. They're not really updated all that often. Like, you know, people, people can, like a company can post something on there. And then it could be on there for a million years, and they never take it down. So you end up applying to something, and you get an email back saying, Oh, we filled this position a million years ago, or like two months ago, but yet the ad is still up on the board. I don't like that. Because it's like, oh, I really want to get this job. And I'm all excited, and I apply for it. And then, whoops, it's already been filled, or, um, a lot of times they have, you know, jobs that they post up there that look really nice and have great hours, and then you realize it's a scam. So, indeed, is kind of a place where you can find good stuff sometimes. But other times, it can be, you know, stuff that's been there for a million years that no one's actually monitoring, or it can end up being a scam. So I would wreck, I would recommend that people on those websites that more heavily for scams and update, or at least like reach out to companies and say, Hey, are you still looking for this position? Are you still trying to fill this position? so that people know if this is still an open offer?

Hana Lim  12:05  
I see. Thank you for your insights. Yeah, and now, I would like to move on. Yes, you will. Now I'd like to give you some time to demonstrate a job search and reporting process that you would usually do, feel free to use any website or tools you normally use and to think out loud as you do the activity. So just feel free to just share your screen and use whatever website you would usually use and how you would like, track your, like List of companies that you've applied to.

Interviewee  12:52  
Here, sharing my screen. Oh, says host has disabled participants. After

Hana Lim  13:02  
I'm sorry, you could try on this one. Okay.

Interviewee  13:12  
So I would usually go on indeed, you know, I would do keywords only keywords what job title company, so I'll do entry.

Or I don't know,

food service, right. So I do. Right, so then I would go through various lists of places where I might want to work. So server, Samar, South Beverly grill, I would go there go Hmm. You know, are they looking for full time or part time. So then I would go to job type part time. Then I will go through the list here. And so I always sometimes we'll look and see where they are. So like Santa Monica, California, will share in Montana, right. So that's relatively close to me, Santa Monica. And you're actually know where this one is. So that's close to me, always try and see exactly where it might be in relation to where I am because I know commuting times can be pretty bad. I have a car, I have a car. But if I have the option to take a bus or my bike, I'll do it because I don't have to pay for parking or gas that way. So if I find, I don't know, barista cashier at La La Land cafe, which is actually not too far from me. So if I did anything like that, I sometimes might just apply on the company's website or if indeed Is there I'll do it. And sometimes indeed makes it really simple, right? So right here, you know, I already have my details filled out, I have Santa Monica, California, and then there's an autofill function. And then usually I have my resume somewhere on my desktop. So then I'll just, you know, choose a file, go through some of this crap. And then I'll add my resume and then plop it on here and then send it in. That's usually what I'll do, if I can, but sometimes they want you to apply for the company website.

where

a lot of these are through indeed. Yeah, no, but but depending on what it is, I'll apply either through indeed, or through the, the the actual website, its help website itself. So or, again, you know, I might, I might look through here and see that, what is this? This is the Cheesecake Factory in downtown Santa Monica, I might go, okay, they're looking for full time or part time workers, I might just walk down there myself with resume paper resume and say, Hey, I saw you guys are looking, can I speak to the manager and I might hand the hand the resume to them myself. So this might just be a way to see what kind of jobs are available right now. Right. So, you know, it just it just depends on the circumstances with COVID, though, specifically, just with COVID, I've, I've mainly been doing it online, I haven't been going in as much in person because I don't want to, I don't want to be exposed any more than I have to be to the outside world. So

yeah, no,

Hana Lim  16:47  
I have a question. Um, so when we mentioned about the date, like, would you filter down the date as well? And we were using those

Interviewee  16:56  
reengaged said, Yeah, like, I mean, usually I'll go like, last 24 hours, or I'll go maybe last seven days, with a job like this. See, they're all saying, oh, hiring urgently. So I would have figured that they might have filled, they probably haven't filled those positions yet if they still have them out here. But if I end up doing something like this, like 14 days, or something I might call in advance. Or if I see that, you know, when was this posted? This was posted six days ago? That was posted eight days ago, 10 days ago just posted? Let's keep going? Oh, well, most of these are pretty recent. But if I see one that has, yes, he looked like this 114 days ago, I might be a little bit more suspicious about that one. So I might not, you know, I might be more I might I might not apply to that one. Because I figure someone's probably already applied to it. And I've got has gotten the job already. But something that's been posted within the last seven days, I'm more likely to apply to so.

Hana Lim  18:06  
And so given the situation by you use LinkedIn, I'm sorry, indeed. Apply to places, then would you like use or rely on indeed, recording system, but you're not like after you apply to place, then, indeed, will have a record of you apply to several other places? You would? Would you rely on this system? Or would you just use a Microsoft Word to keep track of the places? Um,

Interviewee  18:42  
I would probably rely on indeed, if they had something like that, or something that I trusted like that, you know, um, but I like keeping track just for my sake. So I'm not having to, you know, go back and forth, because I don't always use all the functions of the actual website itself. I just use it as a way to, you know, see what's out there, right? Because, again, you know, sometimes I won't even apply on the website, sometimes I'll walk into the place and hand them a resume and indeed, not going to know if I did that. Right. So if I if I have an Excel spreadsheet somewhere or not an Excel spreadsheet or a word spreadsheet somewhere, then I'll be able to actually know whether or not I did it by checking myself, you know what I mean?

Yes. So,

Hana Lim  19:28  
yes. I'm satisfied with the current method of job searching our recording process, do you believe or do you believe there should be an enhancement?

Interviewee  19:40  
Um,

I think the only real enhancement that needs to happen is what I what I said earlier, which is, you know, the the companies like indeed needs to follow up more with the companies and see whether or not they filled the positions and there needs to be More what was what were they saying earlier? I said something really good earlier about them checking to see if the positions have been filled. And something in regards to you know, what, what kind of, I forgot exactly what I said. Sorry, to vaiting. But, um, yeah, no, I mean, our main main complaint is like, making sure that these aren't already filled, and that I'm not just applying to a non existent job, and more, you know what I mean? That's, that's that waste my time, it probably waste their time, waste everybody's time. So indeed, should follow up more on that, and let them know what's up. So, or whatever, companies putting down the job. So

Hana Lim  20:50  
usually, when you're up to job searching, how much time to spend on this task?

Interviewee  20:58  
I mean, not that long applying to a job. If you have a resume already written out and everything, then it doesn't it doesn't take that long. It's usually just submitting the resume, ask it, you know, answering a couple silly questions and going about doing that a couple times. So maybe an hour or two.

Hana Lim  21:19  
How much time would you spend on this task? Slightly difference between the questions?

Interviewee  21:25  
No, I get it. I'm probably like, an hour. So.

Hana Lim  21:29  
Yeah, so definitely less than expected.

Interviewee  21:34  
Yeah, I mean, a little bit a little bit less. Like, I would say, I would say, I'm closer to an hour of applying to places as opposed to, you know, several hours. So

Hana Lim  21:55  
in terms of like, job reporting process, like, do you want to make use of your time more efficient than now? Or do you feel no different? Or do you like actually not care about a current? Like,

situation?

Interviewee  22:12  
I mean, I would it I think what would be making it make it feel more efficient? I think as it is, right now, it's efficient, because all you know, it has a list of jobs, and you apply to them. And you know, you go from there, right? But it would be a lot nicer. If some of the if you could actually call some of these places to at least make it feel like it's more efficient, right? Or, like, have a have have something other than just, you know, the job description right here, which is just like copy and pasted from whatever the company's website is, for whatever the job is, like, That's silly. I would personally like it more, if companies or if indeed, were to set up something feeling a little bit more personal. So at least it could feel like you were, I don't know, doing something like it wasn't just mindless JOB, JOB searching and actually felt like you were talking with people, and maybe getting somewhere but that i think that i think that's more of companies being willing to do that, as opposed to indeed, so.

Hana Lim  23:24  
Thank you for your insight.

Thank you other questions that I want to ask you was? So moving on to like the problem. related question, What keeps you from obtaining the list of civilian applications? Like what are the inconveniences? Once again, sorry, might be duplicated and repetitive. But please, bear with me.

Interviewee  23:54  
What were you saying again? Sorry.

Hana Lim  23:56  
Oh, isn't it I said, What keeps you from updating the list of submitted applications? What are the inconveniences of routers manually putting in some of the information I

Interviewee  24:09  
mean, it's not really anything with websites more on my own problems like you know, I school going on there only very limited hours that I can work given school and everything else going on. So it's like, I'm looking for very specific jobs. Like you know, something that would be part time and that would be able to work around my school schedule. Right. But like, you know, men she's frozen yogurt urgently hiring must be able to work. weekends and evenings. It's like I have eat in the evenings. I'm doing homework, right. And in the mornings, I have for most most week mornings, I have homework going on. So like I could do weekends, right? Because I don't have as much homework on the weekends and shit to do on the weekends. But if they were to ask me to be working like I don't know three or four shifts, during week, I might not be able to do that because of my school schedule, because I have school every single day. So if they wanted me to work in the mornings, like, from eight to eight to noon, or something, I could do that, or from I don't know, seven to noon or something, I could do something like that. But if it was, you know, hey, we need you to work like eight hours shifts all the time, blah, blah, blah, then it's like, well, I need to find a place that's going to accommodate more for that, which, again, is more of my own personal problem, as opposed to a problem with the website. So

Hana Lim  25:28  
yeah, I agree with you. Because that happens to me as well.

Interviewee  25:33  
Can you can can I find a job that will let me go to school?

Hana Lim  25:38  
Oh, yeah.

So it's hard for students? I guess, like what is the most difficult part of your job application process? So it could be when you fill out the application? Or if you don't, don't get any price from the company, or the places you submitted an application? So

Interviewee  26:00  
mainly mainly not getting replies, a lot of times, you'll never get replies from these guys. And that's why you keep the list sometimes if you if you really want to. Because knowing because sometimes you never get a reply back. And you're like, Oh, did I did I actually apply to this place? Right? And then you look at a list and you go like, Okay, well, I did, clearly I did. But it would be nice if they replied to you, you know, and said like, Hey, we're not interested or Oh, we are interested or just something because most of the time, they don't say they don't say anything. So

Hana Lim  26:33  
yes, I totally agree with you on that point.

Frustrating? Yes, it is frustrating.

So I guess my other question, you already mentioned this before, but I was going to ask you, do you believe the current job boards are doing a good job of updating process progress? But the answer is no.

Interviewee  26:55  
I think they could do better. Yeah,

Hana Lim  26:57  
yes.

So Alright, so moving on to other questions with the wouldn't be more approachable for you to apply for jobs when every information you need is sorted, managed and organized automatically by itself instead of you manually just inputting information.

Interviewee  27:25  
Yeah, that would be nice. That'd be really nice. Yeah.

Hana Lim  27:29  
Awesome. And, again, I do think that this is a repetitive question. But what do you think is the biggest cause of the bad or difficult job seeking experience?

Interviewee  27:43  
I think, again, like my own personal stuff, you know, and not anything with websites, but just my own personal parameters of looking for a job, if a website could incorporate something saying, you know, like, like, up here, where it says, student are, like, willing to work with students or something like that, that would be cool. And then you and then the, and then the website could say, like, Hey, are you looking for students who can only work part time or weird hours because of their class schedules? That would solve a lot of problems, because kids right now are, you know, trying to work? Well, you know, at school full time and trying to work a job. And oftentimes, the Job says, Well, we need you to work, you know, night shifts, and weekends and overtime, and blah, blah, blah, and it's like, well, I can't do that, if I have a class that starts at three o'clock, and you're telling me I'm going to be getting off work at like, 250. And it's going to take me 30 minutes to get home. So, you know, stuff like that really needs to be incorporated somehow. So I don't know.

Hana Lim  28:50  
I've never thought of like having the separate filter option for students on

Interviewee  28:55  
Yeah, like a student, like student friendly jobs, like here with the, you know, salaries and 20 within 25 miles and stuff like student friendly would be really cool as well. So

Hana Lim  29:05  
yeah, that is actually a really cool idea. So do you find it helpful or preferred to get notified when you haven't received any updates from the company within a month so that you might send a direct follow up email to the company

Interviewee  29:26  
via a depending on what the job is? I mean, the these kinds of jobs Probably not, because I don't think they would care in all honesty, but some some like more internship II type things. Yeah, I think I think that would be nice.

Hana Lim  29:46  
For I do have some closing questions. And first, to start off with Can you rate the importance of a job application like recording process to you on a scale Once again,

Interviewee  30:01  
I don't think it's super important. Because you know, right now, at least for the jobs that I'm looking for, you know, being for organized and checking whatever I've applied to is not super important. Again, those jobs, I'm looking for part time gigs, you know, I'm not looking for. I'm not I'm not, I'm not looking for a bunch of internships, I'm not looking to, you know, work at my favorite company that does stuff with, you know, I'm not like, I'm not looking for super important places, right? So for me, the the recording process is not as important. However, I have had friends who when they graduated, they applied to like 1000s of places because they need to find a job and they just got their degree, and they're ready to get going. And I'm sure for them having a system other than just an Excel spreadsheet or word spreadsheet or Word document, it would be a lot better for that. Right? Or a lot better for someone who's applying to to real companies and jobs, if that makes sense.

Hana Lim  31:04  
Yes, absolutely. Once again, this one you already answered. But the question was, do you think other job boards have plenty of room for improvement? And I'm pretty sure the answer is yes. Just like you said, just like we discussed that before. And lastly, do you have any questions for me or questions for any? Anything?

Interviewee  31:33  
I think I'm pretty good here. No, no real questions, but you know, always happy to answer your questions. So

Hana Lim  31:41  
awesome. Thank you so much for participating for this information. And I do hope that you have a great day. All right, you too.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
